# Weather-Based Electricity Demand Forecasting
This project aims to predict hourly electricity demand, based on previous electricity demand and current weather factors. This project will attempt to determine which weather factors significantly contribute to electricity demand, and whether the same forecasting techniques can be used to accurately predict electricity demand in different building types. 
The dataset considered will be pulled from two different time series datasets and concatenated. The first dataset includes time series electricity demand data taken at hourly intervals. The second dataset includes weather data, primarily average temperature and average humidity, taken at hourly intervals for an entire year. The weather data set will be obtained from NOAA National Centers for Environmental Information, and contains weather and climate data collected at the city of interest. Both datasets will span from 7/1/2016 to 6/30/2017. The time intervals will be aligned for both data sets to eliminate the time series within the data. The electricity demand data is available for two different schools and two different office buildings in a metropolitan city within the Northeastern region. 
On a large scale, predicting electricity demand is important for electrical distribution grids worldwide to handle the needs of their consumers. Businesses need to be able to budget for their own electrical use. Traditionally, forecast of electricity demand has been based on seasonality and day/night shift. This forecast model is premature and inaccurate in many cases. Understanding how weather factors contribute to electricity demand will render a more precise model and facilitate the optimal allocation of resources. Forecasting energy demand can also identify when buildings are operating inconsistently, or using excessive amounts of energy.
The dataset involves a linear relationship between weather factors and electricity demand. For example, as average humidity and temperature increase, we can expect that electricity demand will increase. The accuracy of the machine learning implementation will be relatively simple to evaluate, as it is a supervised learning problem with continuous output. The robustness of the model will also be tested, as it could be implemented across four different datasets, which include two different building types. 
